Industrial Management
---------------------

Unit – I   Basics of Management 
Introduction, Definition of management, characteristics of management, functions of management - Planning, Organising, Staffing, Directing, Co-ordination, Controlling, 
Motivating, Communication, Decision Making, Principles of management – F.W.Taylor, Henry Fayol, Elton Mayo, Administration and management, Nature of management, levels of management, managerial skills, managerial roles, Forms of Organization- Line , Line –staff etc.  Forms of ownerships – Partnership, Proprietorship, Joint stock, Co-operative society, Govt. Sector etc, concept of Globalisation  
 
Unit – II   Strategic Management 
Military origins of strategy – Evolution - Concept and Characteristics of strategic management –Defining strategy – Mintzberg’s 5P’s of strategy – Corporate, Business and Functional Levels of strategy - Strategic Management Process. Preparing an Environmental Threat and Opportunity Profile (ETOP) – Industry Analysis - Porter’s Five Forces Model of competition.BCG Matrix – GE 9 Cell Model -Balanced Scorecard, Generic Competitive Strategies: Low cost, Differentiation, Focus. 
 
Unit – III   Quality Management 
Definition of quality, goalpost view of quality, continuous improvement definition of quality, types of quality – quality of design, conformance and performance, phases of quality management,  Juran’s and Demings view of quality, Quality Management Assistance Tools: Ishikawa diagram – Pareto Analysis – Pokka Yoke (Mistake Proofing).quality circles, TQM, Kaizen, Five S (5S), Six sigma Quality Management  Standards (Introductory aspects only)- The ISO 9001:2000 Quality Management System Standard- The ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System Standard- ISO 27001:2005 Information Security Management System       
 
Unit – IV Financial & Project Management 
Capital Structure, Fixed & working capital, Role of Securities and Exchange Board of India        (SEBI), function of money market and capital Market,  sources of finance. Introduction to capital budgeting, Techniques of capital budgeting. Break even analysis - assumptions, importance, Cost-Benefit analysis, CVP graph, Project Management, Project network analysis, CPM, PERT and Project crashing and resource Leveling.

Unit – V – Human Resource Development  
Strategic importance HRM; objectives of HRM; challenges to HR professionals; role, Responsibilities and competencies of HR professionals; HR department operations; Human Resource Planning - objectives and process; human resource information system.. Talent acquisition; recruitment and selection strategies, career planning and management,training and development, investment in training programme; executive development. 

Text books:  
 
1. P. Khanna, “Industrial Engineering and Management”, Dhanpatrai publications Ltd, New 
Delhi. 
2.  L.C.Jhamb , Savitri Jhamb , Industrial Management – I , Everest Publishing House . 